docs/src/api.md, before:

# API

The API of Agents.jl is defined on top of the fundamental structures [`AgentBasedModel`](@ref), [Space](@ref Space), [`AbstractAgent`](@ref) which are described in the [Tutorial](@ref) page.
In this page we list the remaining API functions, which constitute the bulk of Agents.jl functionality.

## `@agent` macro
The [`@agent`](@ref) macro makes defining agent types within Agents.jl simple.

```@docs
@agent
GraphAgent
GridAgent
ContinuousAgent
OSMAgent
```

## Agent/model retrieval and access
```@docs
getindex(::ABM, ::Integer)
getproperty(::ABM, ::Symbol)
seed!
random_agent
nagents
allagents
allids
```

## Available spaces
Here we list the spaces that are available "out of the box" from Agents.jl. To create your own, see [Creating a new space type](@ref).

### Discrete spaces
```@docs
GraphSpace
GridSpace
```

### Continuous spaces
```@docs
ContinuousSpace
OpenStreetMapSpace
```

## Adding agents
```@docs
add_agent!
add_agent_pos!
nextid
random_position
```

## Moving agents
```@docs
move_agent!
walk!
get_direction
```

### Movement with paths
For [`OpenStreetMapSpace`](@ref), and [`GridSpace`](@ref)/[`ContinuousSpace`](@ref) using [`Pathfinding.Pathfinder`](@ref), a special
movement method is available.

```@docs
plan_route!
plan_best_route!
move_along_route!
is_stationary
```

## Removing agents
```@docs
kill_agent!
genocide!
sample!
```

## Discrete space exclusives
```@docs
positions
ids_in_position
agents_in_position
fill_space!
has_empty_positions
empty_positions
random_empty
add_agent_single!
move_agent_single!
isempty(::Integer, ::ABM)
```

## Continuous space exclusives
```@docs
get_spatial_property
get_spatial_index
interacting_pairs
nearest_neighbor
elastic_collision!
```

## Graph space exclusives
```@docs
add_edge!
add_node!
rem_node!
```

## OpenStreetMap space exclusives
```@docs
OSM
OSM.lonlat
OSM.nearest_node
OSM.nearest_road
OSM.random_road_position
OSM.plan_random_route!
OSM.road_length
OSM.same_position
OSM.same_road
OSM.test_map
OSM.download_osm_network
```

## Nearby Agents
```@docs
nearby_ids
nearby_agents
nearby_positions
random_nearby_id
random_nearby_agent
edistance
```

## A note on iteration

Most iteration in Agents.jl is **dynamic** and **lazy**, when possible, for performance reasons.

**Dynamic** means that when iterating over the result of e.g. the [`ids_in_position`](@ref) function, the iterator will be affected by actions that would alter its contents.
Specifically, imagine the scenario
```@example docs
using Agents
mutable struct Agent <: AbstractAgent
    id::Int
    pos::NTuple{4, Int}
end

model = ABM(Agent, GridSpace((5, 5, 5, 5)))
add_agent!((1, 1, 1, 1), model)
add_agent!((1, 1, 1, 1), model)
add_agent!((2, 1, 1, 1), model)
for id in ids_in_position((1, 1, 1, 1), model)
    kill_agent!(id, model)
end
collect(allids(model))
```
You will notice that only 1 agent got killed. This is simply because the final state of the iteration of `ids_in_position` was reached unnaturally, because the length of its output was reduced by 1 _during_ iteration.
To avoid problems like these, you need to `collect` the iterator to have a non dynamic version.

**Lazy** means that when possible the outputs of the iteration are not collected and instead are generated on the fly.
A good example to illustrate this is [`nearby_ids`](@ref), where doing something like
```julia
a = random_agent(model)
sort!(nearby_ids(random_agent(model), model))
```
leads to error, since you cannot `sort!` the returned iterator. This can be easily solved by adding a `collect` in between:
```@example docs
a = random_agent(model)
sort!(collect(nearby_agents(a, model)))
```

## Higher-order interactions

There may be times when pair-wise, triplet-wise or higher interactions need to be
accounted for across most or all of the model's agent population. The following methods
provide an interface for such calculation.

These methods follow the conventions outlined above in [A note on iteration](@ref).

```@docs
iter_agent_groups
map_agent_groups
index_mapped_groups
```

## Parameter scanning
```@docs
paramscan
```

## Data collection
The central simulation function is [`run!`](@ref), which is mentioned in our [Tutorial](@ref).
But there are other functions that are related to simulations listed here.
Specifically, these functions aid in making custom data collection loops, instead of using the `run!` function.

For example, the core loop of `run!` is just
```julia
df_agent = init_agent_dataframe(model, adata)
df_model = init_model_dataframe(model, mdata)

s = 0
while until(s, n, model)
  if should_we_collect(s, model, when)
      collect_agent_data!(df_agent, model, adata, s)
  end
  if should_we_collect(s, model, when_model)
      collect_model_data!(df_model, model, mdata, s)
  end
  step!(model, agent_step!, model_step!, 1)
  s += 1
end
return df_agent, df_model
```
(here `until` and `should_we_collect` are internal functions)

`run!` uses the following functions:

```@docs
init_agent_dataframe
collect_agent_data!
init_model_dataframe
collect_model_data!
dataname
```

## [Schedulers](@id Schedulers)
```@docs
Schedulers
```

### Predefined schedulers
Some useful schedulers are available below as part of the Agents.jl API:
```@docs
Schedulers.fastest
Schedulers.ByID
Schedulers.Randomly
Schedulers.Partially
Schedulers.ByProperty
Schedulers.ByType
```

### Advanced scheduling
You can use [Function-like objects](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/methods/#Function-like-objects) to make your scheduling possible of arbitrary events.
For example, imagine that after the `n`-th step of your simulation you want to fundamentally change the order of agents. To achieve this you can define
```julia
mutable struct MyScheduler
    n::Int # step number
    w::Float64
end
```
and then define a calling method for it like so
```julia
function (ms::MyScheduler)(model::ABM)
    ms.n += 1 # increment internal counter by 1 each time its called
              # be careful to use a *new* instance of this scheduler when plotting!
    if ms.n < 10
        return allids(model) # order doesn't matter in this case
    else
        ids = collect(allids(model))
        # filter all ids whose agents have `w` less than some amount
        filter!(id -> model[id].w < ms.w, ids)
        return ids
    end
end
```
and pass it to e.g. `step!` by initializing it
```julia
ms = MyScheduler(100, 0.5)
step!(model, agentstep, modelstep, 100; scheduler = ms)
```

## Ensemble runs and Parallelization
```@docs
ensemblerun!
```

### How to use `Distributed`
To use the `parallel=true` option of [`ensemblerun!`](@ref) you need to load `Agents` and define your fundamental types at all processors. How to do this is shown in [Ensembles and distributed computing](@ref) section of Schelling's Segregation Model example. See also the [Performance Tips](@ref) page for parallelization.

## Path-finding
```@docs
Pathfinding
Pathfinding.AStar
Pathfinding.penaltymap
Pathfinding.nearby_walkable
Pathfinding.random_walkable
```

### Pathfinding Metrics
```@docs
Pathfinding.DirectDistance
Pathfinding.MaxDistance
Pathfinding.PenaltyMap
```

Building a custom metric is straightforward, if the provided ones do not suit your purpose.
See the [Developer Docs](@ref) for details.

## Save, Load, Checkpoints
There may be scenarios where interacting with data in the form of files is necessary. The following
functions provide an interface to save/load data to/from files.
```@docs
AgentsIO.save_checkpoint
AgentsIO.load_checkpoint
AgentsIO.populate_from_csv!
AgentsIO.dump_to_csv
```

In case you require custom serialization for model properties, refer to the [Developer Docs](@ref)
for details.

Commit message:

Add `:manhattan` metric and `manhattan_distance` utility function (#633)
* Add mdistance function

* Rename edistance and mdistance

* Add deprecation warning for edistance

* Add .vscode folder to gitignore

* Rename all occurrences of edistance

* Actual deprecation because I'm being silly

* Add manhattan metric

* Add tests for manhattan_distance

* Own case for manhattan metric

* Tests for nearby_positions and nearby_ids

* Add entries to changelog

* Add manhattan metric to docstring

* clarify von newumann / moore in docstring

* add example plot for metrics in grid

Co-authored-by: Datseris <datseris.george@gmail.com>

docs/src/api.md, after:

# API

The API of Agents.jl is defined on top of the fundamental structures [`AgentBasedModel`](@ref), [Space](@ref Space), [`AbstractAgent`](@ref) which are described in the [Tutorial](@ref) page.
In this page we list the remaining API functions, which constitute the bulk of Agents.jl functionality.

## `@agent` macro
The [`@agent`](@ref) macro makes defining agent types within Agents.jl simple.

```@docs
@agent
GraphAgent
GridAgent
ContinuousAgent
OSMAgent
```

## Agent/model retrieval and access
```@docs
getindex(::ABM, ::Integer)
getproperty(::ABM, ::Symbol)
seed!
random_agent
nagents
allagents
allids
```

## Available spaces
Here we list the spaces that are available "out of the box" from Agents.jl. To create your own, see [Creating a new space type](@ref).

### Discrete spaces
```@docs
GraphSpace
GridSpace
```

Here is a specification of how the metrics look like:
```@example
include("distances_example_plot.jl") # hide
```

### Continuous spaces
```@docs
ContinuousSpace
OpenStreetMapSpace
```

## Adding agents
```@docs
add_agent!
add_agent_pos!
nextid
random_position
```

## Moving agents
```@docs
move_agent!
walk!
get_direction
```

### Movement with paths
For [`OpenStreetMapSpace`](@ref), and [`GridSpace`](@ref)/[`ContinuousSpace`](@ref) using [`Pathfinding.Pathfinder`](@ref), a special
movement method is available.

```@docs
plan_route!
plan_best_route!
move_along_route!
is_stationary
```

## Removing agents
```@docs
kill_agent!
genocide!
sample!
```

## Discrete space exclusives
```@docs
positions
ids_in_position
agents_in_position
fill_space!
has_empty_positions
empty_positions
random_empty
add_agent_single!
move_agent_single!
isempty(::Integer, ::ABM)
```

## Continuous space exclusives
```@docs
get_spatial_property
get_spatial_index
interacting_pairs
nearest_neighbor
elastic_collision!
```

## Graph space exclusives
```@docs
add_edge!
add_node!
rem_node!
```

## OpenStreetMap space exclusives
```@docs
OSM
OSM.lonlat
OSM.nearest_node
OSM.nearest_road
OSM.random_road_position
OSM.plan_random_route!
OSM.road_length
OSM.same_position
OSM.same_road
OSM.test_map
OSM.download_osm_network
```

## Nearby Agents
```@docs
nearby_ids
nearby_agents
nearby_positions
random_nearby_id
random_nearby_agent
euclidean_distance
manhattan_distance
```

## A note on iteration

Most iteration in Agents.jl is **dynamic** and **lazy**, when possible, for performance reasons.

**Dynamic** means that when iterating over the result of e.g. the [`ids_in_position`](@ref) function, the iterator will be affected by actions that would alter its contents.
Specifically, imagine the scenario
```@example docs
using Agents
mutable struct Agent <: AbstractAgent
    id::Int
    pos::NTuple{4, Int}
end

model = ABM(Agent, GridSpace((5, 5, 5, 5)))
add_agent!((1, 1, 1, 1), model)
add_agent!((1, 1, 1, 1), model)
add_agent!((2, 1, 1, 1), model)
for id in ids_in_position((1, 1, 1, 1), model)
    kill_agent!(id, model)
end
collect(allids(model))
```
You will notice that only 1 agent got killed. This is simply because the final state of the iteration of `ids_in_position` was reached unnaturally, because the length of its output was reduced by 1 _during_ iteration.
To avoid problems like these, you need to `collect` the iterator to have a non dynamic version.

**Lazy** means that when possible the outputs of the iteration are not collected and instead are generated on the fly.
A good example to illustrate this is [`nearby_ids`](@ref), where doing something like
```julia
a = random_agent(model)
sort!(nearby_ids(random_agent(model), model))
```
leads to error, since you cannot `sort!` the returned iterator. This can be easily solved by adding a `collect` in between:
```@example docs
a = random_agent(model)
sort!(collect(nearby_agents(a, model)))
```

## Higher-order interactions

There may be times when pair-wise, triplet-wise or higher interactions need to be
accounted for across most or all of the model's agent population. The following methods
provide an interface for such calculation.

These methods follow the conventions outlined above in [A note on iteration](@ref).

```@docs
iter_agent_groups
map_agent_groups
index_mapped_groups
```

## Parameter scanning
```@docs
paramscan
```

## Data collection
The central simulation function is [`run!`](@ref), which is mentioned in our [Tutorial](@ref).
But there are other functions that are related to simulations listed here.
Specifically, these functions aid in making custom data collection loops, instead of using the `run!` function.

For example, the core loop of `run!` is just
```julia
df_agent = init_agent_dataframe(model, adata)
df_model = init_model_dataframe(model, mdata)

s = 0
while until(s, n, model)
  if should_we_collect(s, model, when)
      collect_agent_data!(df_agent, model, adata, s)
  end
  if should_we_collect(s, model, when_model)
      collect_model_data!(df_model, model, mdata, s)
  end
  step!(model, agent_step!, model_step!, 1)
  s += 1
end
return df_agent, df_model
```
(here `until` and `should_we_collect` are internal functions)

`run!` uses the following functions:

```@docs
init_agent_dataframe
collect_agent_data!
init_model_dataframe
collect_model_data!
dataname
```

## [Schedulers](@id Schedulers)
```@docs
Schedulers
```

### Predefined schedulers
Some useful schedulers are available below as part of the Agents.jl API:
```@docs
Schedulers.fastest
Schedulers.ByID
Schedulers.Randomly
Schedulers.Partially
Schedulers.ByProperty
Schedulers.ByType
```

### Advanced scheduling
You can use [Function-like objects](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/methods/#Function-like-objects) to make your scheduling possible of arbitrary events.
For example, imagine that after the `n`-th step of your simulation you want to fundamentally change the order of agents. To achieve this you can define
```julia
mutable struct MyScheduler
    n::Int # step number
    w::Float64
end
```
and then define a calling method for it like so
```julia
function (ms::MyScheduler)(model::ABM)
    ms.n += 1 # increment internal counter by 1 each time its called
              # be careful to use a *new* instance of this scheduler when plotting!
    if ms.n < 10
        return allids(model) # order doesn't matter in this case
    else
        ids = collect(allids(model))
        # filter all ids whose agents have `w` less than some amount
        filter!(id -> model[id].w < ms.w, ids)
        return ids
    end
end
```
and pass it to e.g. `step!` by initializing it
```julia
ms = MyScheduler(100, 0.5)
step!(model, agentstep, modelstep, 100; scheduler = ms)
```

## Ensemble runs and Parallelization
```@docs
ensemblerun!
```

### How to use `Distributed`
To use the `parallel=true` option of [`ensemblerun!`](@ref) you need to load `Agents` and define your fundamental types at all processors. How to do this is shown in [Ensembles and distributed computing](@ref) section of Schelling's Segregation Model example. See also the [Performance Tips](@ref) page for parallelization.

## Path-finding
```@docs
Pathfinding
Pathfinding.AStar
Pathfinding.penaltymap
Pathfinding.nearby_walkable
Pathfinding.random_walkable
```

### Pathfinding Metrics
```@docs
Pathfinding.DirectDistance
Pathfinding.MaxDistance
Pathfinding.PenaltyMap
```

Building a custom metric is straightforward, if the provided ones do not suit your purpose.
See the [Developer Docs](@ref) for details.

## Save, Load, Checkpoints
There may be scenarios where interacting with data in the form of files is necessary. The following
functions provide an interface to save/load data to/from files.
```@docs
AgentsIO.save_checkpoint
AgentsIO.load_checkpoint
AgentsIO.populate_from_csv!
AgentsIO.dump_to_csv
```

In case you require custom serialization for model properties, refer to the [Developer Docs](@ref)
for details.
