docs/src/devdocs.md, before:

# Developer Docs

## Cloning the repository

Since we include documentation with many animated gifs and videos in the repository, a standard clone can be larger than expected.
If you wish to do any development work, it is better to use

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl.git --single-branch
```

## Creating a new space type
Creating a new space type within Agents.jl is quite simple and requires the extension of only 5 methods to support the entire Agents.jl API. The exact specifications on how to create a new space type are contained within the file: [`[src/core/space_interaction_API.jl]`](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl/blob/master/src/core/space_interaction_API.jl).

In principle, the following should be done:

1. Think about what the agent position type should be.
1. Think about how the space type will keep track of the agent positions, so that it is possible to implement the function [`nearby_ids`](@ref).
1. Implement the `struct` that represents your new space, while making it a subtype of `AbstractSpace`.
1. Extend `random_position(model)`.
1. Extend `add_agent_to_space!(agent, model), remove_agent_from_space!(agent, model)`. This already provides access to `add_agent!, kill_agent!` and `move_agent!`.
1. Extend `nearby_ids(position, model, r)`.

And that's it! Every function of the main API will now work. In some situations you might want to explicitly extend other functions such as `move_agent!` for performance reasons.

## Designing a new Pathfinder Cost Metric

To define a new cost metric, simply make a struct that subtypes `CostMetric` and provide
a `delta_cost` function for it. These methods work solely for A* at present, but
will be available for other pathfinder algorithms in the future.

```@docs
Pathfinding.CostMetric
Pathfinding.delta_cost
```

## Implementing custom serialization

### For model properties
Custom serialization may be required if your properties contain non-serializable data, such as
functions. Alternatively, if it is possible to recalculate some properties during deserialization
it may be space-efficient to not save them. To implement custom serialization, define methods
for the `to_serializable` and `from_serializable` functions:

```@docs
AgentsIO.to_serializable
AgentsIO.from_serializable
```

### For agent structs
Similarly to model properties, you may need to implement custom serialization for agent structs.
`from_serializable` and `to_serializable` are not called during (de)serialization of agent structs.
Instead, [JLD2's custom serialization functionality](https://juliaio.github.io/JLD2.jl/stable/customserialization/)
should be used. All instances of the agent struct will be converted to and from the specified
type during serialization. For OpenStreetMap agents, the position, destination and route are
saved separately. These values will be loaded back in during deserialization of the model and
override any values in the agent structs. To save space, the agents in the serialized model
will have empty `route` fields.

## OpenStreetMapSpace internals
Details about the internal details of the OSMSpace are discussed in the docstring of `OSM.OpenStreetMapPath`.

Commit message:

More efficient ensemblerun!, with progressbars for ensemblerun! and paramscan (default no progressbar) (#624)
* parallel_ensemble has two versions, current and darray

* automated batch size now accomplished through distributed for-loop with progressbar

* ensemblerun! and paramscan tests, benchmarks, cleanup

* cleanup and docs noted in self-review

* reduced size of ensemblerun test to avoid out-of-memory on Windows CI

* move benchmarks to dev docs

* address comments

i'm removing project activation from ensemble benchmarks for consistency. either we do it in all benchmark files or in none.

(of course correct is in all, but i don't have time now)

* add changelog entry

* fix tests

* go back to StatsBase

Co-authored-by: Datseris <datseris.george@gmail.com>

docs/src/devdocs.md, after:

# Developer Docs

## Cloning the repository

Since we include documentation with many animated gifs and videos in the repository, a standard clone can be larger than expected.
If you wish to do any development work, it is better to use

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl.git --single-branch
```

## Creating a new space type
Creating a new space type within Agents.jl is quite simple and requires the extension of only 5 methods to support the entire Agents.jl API. The exact specifications on how to create a new space type are contained within the file: [`[src/core/space_interaction_API.jl]`](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl/blob//src/core/space_interaction_API.jl).

In principle, the following should be done:

1. Think about what the agent position type should be.
1. Think about how the space type will keep track of the agent positions, so that it is possible to implement the function [`nearby_ids`](@ref).
1. Implement the `struct` that represents your new space, while making it a subtype of `AbstractSpace`.
1. Extend `random_position(model)`.
1. Extend `add_agent_to_space!(agent, model), remove_agent_from_space!(agent, model)`. This already provides access to `add_agent!, kill_agent!` and `move_agent!`.
1. Extend `nearby_ids(position, model, r)`.

And that's it! Every function of the main API will now work. In some situations you might want to explicitly extend other functions such as `move_agent!` for performance reasons.

## Designing a new Pathfinder Cost Metric

To define a new cost metric, simply make a struct that subtypes `CostMetric` and provide
a `delta_cost` function for it. These methods work solely for A* at present, but
will be available for other pathfinder algorithms in the future.

```@docs
Pathfinding.CostMetric
Pathfinding.delta_cost
```

## Implementing custom serialization

### For model properties
Custom serialization may be required if your properties contain non-serializable data, such as
functions. Alternatively, if it is possible to recalculate some properties during deserialization
it may be space-efficient to not save them. To implement custom serialization, define methods
for the `to_serializable` and `from_serializable` functions:

```@docs
AgentsIO.to_serializable
AgentsIO.from_serializable
```

### For agent structs
Similarly to model properties, you may need to implement custom serialization for agent structs.
`from_serializable` and `to_serializable` are not called during (de)serialization of agent structs.
Instead, [JLD2's custom serialization functionality](https://juliaio.github.io/JLD2.jl/stable/customserialization/)
should be used. All instances of the agent struct will be converted to and from the specified
type during serialization. For OpenStreetMap agents, the position, destination and route are
saved separately. These values will be loaded back in during deserialization of the model and
override any values in the agent structs. To save space, the agents in the serialized model
will have empty `route` fields.

## OpenStreetMapSpace internals
Details about the internal details of the OSMSpace are discussed in the docstring of `OSM.OpenStreetMapPath`.

## Benchmarking
As Agents.jl is developed we want to monitor code efficiency through
_benchmarks_. A benchmark is a function or other bit of code whose execution is
timed so that developers and users can keep track of how long different API
functions take when used in various ways. Individual benchmarks can be organized
into _suites_ of benchmark tests. See the
[`benchmark`](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl/tree/main/benchmark)
directory to view Agents.jl's benchmark suites. Follow these examples to add
your own benchmarks for your Agents.jl contributions. See the BenchmarkTools
[quickstart guide](https://github.com/JuliaCI/BenchmarkTools.jl#quick-start),
[toy example benchmark
suite](https://github.com/JuliaCI/BenchmarkTools.jl/blob/master/benchmark/benchmarks.jl),
and the [BenchmarkTools.jl
manual](https://juliaci.github.io/BenchmarkTools.jl/dev/manual/#Benchmarking-basics)
for more information on how to write your own benchmarks.
