docs/src/examples.md, before:

# Overview of Examples

Our ever growing list of examples are designed to showcase what is possible with
Agents.jl. Here, we outline a number of topics that new and advanced users alike can
quickly reference to find exactly what they're looking for.

## I've never used an ABM before where should I start?

The simplest, and most thoroughly discussed example we have is
[Schelling's segregation model](@ref). Here, you will learn how to create an agent,
define its actions, collect data from an experiment, plot results and even how to set
up multiple experiments in parallel.

[Opinion spread](@ref) is another all-round showcase of these topics, with some
interesting, yet more complicated dynamics.

## Concepts

There are many things to learn in the ABM space. Here are some of the more common ones
Agents.jl covers.

### Spaces

Choosing what kind of space your agents occupy is a fundamental aspect of model creation.
Agents.jl provides a number of solutions, and the ability to
[create your own](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl/blob/master/src/core/space_interaction_API.jl).

Maybe you don't need a space? The [Wright-Fisher model of evolution](@ref) is a good
example to take a look at first to see if you can solve your problem without one.

Making a discrete grid is perhaps the easiest way to conceptualise space in a model.
[Sugarscape](@ref) is one of our more complex examples, but gives you a good overview
of what is possible on a grid. If you're looking for something simpler, then the
[Forest fire](@ref) would be a good start, which is also an example of a cellular automaton.

A more complex, but far more powerful space type is something we call
[`ContinuousSpace`](@ref). In this space, agents generally move with a given velocity
and interact in a far smoother manner than grid based models. The [Flock model](@ref)
is perhaps the most famous example of bottom-up emergent phenomena. Something quite
topical at present is our
[Continuous space social distancing for COVID-19](@ref) example.
Finally, an excellent example of what can be done in a continuous space:
[Bacterial Growth](@ref).

Perhaps geographical space is not so important for your model, but connections between
agents in some other manner is. A [`GraphSpace`](@ref) may be the answer.
[SIR model for the spread of COVID-19](@ref) showcases how viral spread may occur in
populations.

Using graphs in conjunction with grid spaces is also possible, we discuss this in one
of our integration pages: [Social networks with LightGraphs.jl](@ref).

Finally, [Battle Royale](@ref) is an advanced example which leverages a 3-dimensional
grid space, but only uses 2 of those dimensions for space. The third represents an
agent **category**. Here, we can leverage Agents.jl's sophisticated neighbor searches
to find closely related agents not just in space, but also in property.

### Agent Path-finding

On [`GridSpace`](@ref)'s, the [`Pathfinding.Pathfinder`](@ref) system (using the A* algorithm)
provides automatic path-finding for agents with a variety of options and metrics to
choose from. We have two models showcasing the possibilities of this method:
[Maze Solver](@ref) and [Mountain Runners](@ref).

### Synchronous agent updates

Most of the time, using the `agent_step!` loop then the `model_step!` is
sufficient to evolve a model. What if there's a more complicated set of dynamics you need
to employ? Take a look at the [HK (Hegselmann and Krause) opinion dynamics model](@ref):
it shows us how to make a second agent loop within `model_step!` to synchronise changes
across all agents after `agent_step!` dynamics have completed.

### Agent sampling

The [Wright-Fisher model of evolution](@ref) shows us how we can sample a population of
agents based on certain model properties. This is quite helpful in genetic and biology
studies where agents are cell analogues.

### Parameter searching and ensemble analysis

The lower portion of the [Schelling's segregation model](@ref) page deals with some
advanced topics like how one can run many examples in parallel to get ensemble averages
of many similar model runs. In addition to this, it explores ways of searching
parameter ranges of your model to fine-tune inputs.

### Cellular Automata

A subset of ABMs, these models have individual agents with a set of behaviors,
interacting with neighboring cells and the world around them, but never moving.
Two famous examples of this model type are [Conway's game of life](@ref) and
[Daisyworld](@ref).

### Mixed Models

In the real world, groups of people interact differently with people they know vs people
they don't know. In ABM worlds, that's no different.
[Predator-prey dynamics](@ref) (or more colloquially: Wolf-Sheep) implements
interactions between a pack of Wolves, a heard of Sheep and meadows of Grass.
[Daisyworld](@ref) is an example of how a model property (in this case temperature) can
be elevated to an agent type.

## Advanced Topics

One major difference between Agents.jl and other ABM frameworks is how integrated it is
to the greater ecosystem of the Julia language and by extension the tools one can apply
in their models. Take a look at some of the more advanced walkthroughs in the *Ecosystem Integration*
page of this documentation for details.

Commit message:

OSMSpace Serialization (#511)
* Update schelling with module fix

* Added OSM Space serialization

- Some formatting changes

* Temporarily comment JLD2/OSMSpace tests

* Doc fixes

- checkpoint functions before CSV functions in api.md
- Better keyword listing for load_checkpoint
- Renamed Save/Load section of api.md

* Fix bullet points indentation

* OSMSpace Serialization fix, tests

- Fixed incorrect initialization of agent pos/dest/route
- Changed keyword for OSM from :path to :map
- Added tests for OSMSpace serialization

* OSM Serialization and tests fixes

- agent pos/dest stored as (latlon, latlon, float) tuples

* agent.route no longer saved for OSMSpace

- Shallowcopies agent through metaprogramming magic, routes cleared

* Updated load_checkpoint docs

- Sections for space-specific keywords
- Added OSMSpace keywords

* save_checkpoint docs update

* Add agent serialization to devdocs

* Add section to examples.md for save/load

* Update changelog

* Add non-reproducibility messages

OSM.random_road_position and consequently OSM.random_route! are not reproducible.
Added a **Note:** specifying this

* Add random_point_in_bounds

Fixes reproducibility issues with OSMSpace

* Link stable JLD2 docs, not dev

* Update changelog, bump version, fix consistency issues

- New entry in CHANGELOG.md
- Update version number in Agents.jl and index.md
- Use helper functions in jld2_integration for consistency

docs/src/examples.md, after:

# Overview of Examples

Our ever growing list of examples are designed to showcase what is possible with
Agents.jl. Here, we outline a number of topics that new and advanced users alike can
quickly reference to find exactly what they're looking for.

## I've never used an ABM before where should I start?

The simplest, and most thoroughly discussed example we have is
[Schelling's segregation model](@ref). Here, you will learn how to create an agent,
define its actions, collect data from an experiment, plot results, save the model to a file and
even how to set up multiple experiments in parallel.

[Opinion spread](@ref) is another all-round showcase of these topics, with some
interesting, yet more complicated dynamics.

## Concepts

There are many things to learn in the ABM space. Here are some of the more common ones
Agents.jl covers.

### Spaces

Choosing what kind of space your agents occupy is a fundamental aspect of model creation.
Agents.jl provides a number of solutions, and the ability to
[create your own](https://github.com/JuliaDynamics/Agents.jl/blob/master/src/core/space_interaction_API.jl).

Maybe you don't need a space? The [Wright-Fisher model of evolution](@ref) is a good
example to take a look at first to see if you can solve your problem without one.

Making a discrete grid is perhaps the easiest way to conceptualise space in a model.
[Sugarscape](@ref) is one of our more complex examples, but gives you a good overview
of what is possible on a grid. If you're looking for something simpler, then the
[Forest fire](@ref) would be a good start, which is also an example of a cellular automaton.

A more complex, but far more powerful space type is something we call
[`ContinuousSpace`](@ref). In this space, agents generally move with a given velocity
and interact in a far smoother manner than grid based models. The [Flock model](@ref)
is perhaps the most famous example of bottom-up emergent phenomena. Something quite
topical at present is our
[Continuous space social distancing for COVID-19](@ref) example.
Finally, an excellent example of what can be done in a continuous space:
[Bacterial Growth](@ref).

Perhaps geographical space is not so important for your model, but connections between
agents in some other manner is. A [`GraphSpace`](@ref) may be the answer.
[SIR model for the spread of COVID-19](@ref) showcases how viral spread may occur in
populations.

Using graphs in conjunction with grid spaces is also possible, we discuss this in one
of our integration pages: [Social networks with LightGraphs.jl](@ref).

Finally, [Battle Royale](@ref) is an advanced example which leverages a 3-dimensional
grid space, but only uses 2 of those dimensions for space. The third represents an
agent **category**. Here, we can leverage Agents.jl's sophisticated neighbor searches
to find closely related agents not just in space, but also in property.

### Agent Path-finding

On [`GridSpace`](@ref)'s, the [`Pathfinding.Pathfinder`](@ref) system (using the A* algorithm)
provides automatic path-finding for agents with a variety of options and metrics to
choose from. We have two models showcasing the possibilities of this method:
[Maze Solver](@ref) and [Mountain Runners](@ref).

### Synchronous agent updates

Most of the time, using the `agent_step!` loop then the `model_step!` is
sufficient to evolve a model. What if there's a more complicated set of dynamics you need
to employ? Take a look at the [HK (Hegselmann and Krause) opinion dynamics model](@ref):
it shows us how to make a second agent loop within `model_step!` to synchronise changes
across all agents after `agent_step!` dynamics have completed.

### Agent sampling

The [Wright-Fisher model of evolution](@ref) shows us how we can sample a population of
agents based on certain model properties. This is quite helpful in genetic and biology
studies where agents are cell analogues.

### Parameter searching and ensemble analysis

The lower portion of the [Schelling's segregation model](@ref) page deals with some
advanced topics like how one can run many examples in parallel to get ensemble averages
of many similar model runs. In addition to this, it explores ways of searching
parameter ranges of your model to fine-tune inputs.

### Cellular Automata

A subset of ABMs, these models have individual agents with a set of behaviors,
interacting with neighboring cells and the world around them, but never moving.
Two famous examples of this model type are [Conway's game of life](@ref) and
[Daisyworld](@ref).

### Mixed Models

In the real world, groups of people interact differently with people they know vs people
they don't know. In ABM worlds, that's no different.
[Predator-prey dynamics](@ref) (or more colloquially: Wolf-Sheep) implements
interactions between a pack of Wolves, a heard of Sheep and meadows of Grass.
[Daisyworld](@ref) is an example of how a model property (in this case temperature) can
be elevated to an agent type.

### Saving and loading models

One of the later sections of the [Schelling's segregation model](@ref) page gives an example
of how models can be saved to/loaded from files and a possible use case for the same.

## Advanced Topics

One major difference between Agents.jl and other ABM frameworks is how integrated it is
to the greater ecosystem of the Julia language and by extension the tools one can apply
in their models. Take a look at some of the more advanced walkthroughs in the *Ecosystem Integration*
page of this documentation for details.
